Add blog post of qcoder (#553)
unitaryfund/unitary.fund: src/content/blog/2024_qcoder.md

---
title: QCoder - A platform for quantum competitive programming
author: Kein Yukiyoshi
day: 20
month: 10
year: 2024

> tags: 
>   - quantum algorithms
>   - qiskit
>   - python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: 
  - guest post
  - microgrant
  - qiskit
  - python
```

Author: I have commited the suggestion. Thank you!

---
title: QCoder - A platform for quantum competitive programming
author: Kein Yukiyoshi
day: 20
month: 10
year: 2024
tags: 
  - quantum algorithms
  - qiskit
  - python
---

<p align="center">
    <img src='../../images/2024-qcoder/qcoder_logo.png' alt='QCoder Logo' width=800/>
</p>

In recent years, quantum algorithms have attracted attention for their theoretical promise of significant efficiency gains.
Shor's algorithm, for example, can factor integers with exponentially fewer queries than known classical algorithms.

> While learning about these algorithms is exciting, it can be challenging to stay motivated—especially for those without an academic background who are learning just for fun.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learning about these algorithms is exciting, but staying motivated can be challenging, especially for those without an academic background who are learning for fun.
```

Textbooks and academic papers are often too complex for beginners, making it hard to follow along.
Even if you succeed in understanding and implementing an algorithm, running it on today’s quantum computers in scalable settings is typically impossible.

> In response to these challenges, we have developed <a href="https://www.qcoder.jp/" target="_blank">**QCoder**</a>, a platform for quantum competitive programming.

Reviewer: you can use the markdown syntax for links, e.g.,  [QCoder](https://www.qcoder.jp/)

Author: Fixed one additional missed one🙏: https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/553/commits/4a3207b7ebdbcd6da89fc90c92ee7cf70499fde9

QCoder is the quantum counterpart to conventional competitive programming platforms such as Codeforces, Google Code Jam, and ICPC.

> It allows users to learn quantum algorithms and practice quantum programming simply by participating in competitions.

Reviewer 2: I like the first paragraph you have, and how it motivates QCoder, but I think some more info on how QCoder helps solve those problems&mdash;helping people get their hands dirty with quantum programming before they're able to run Shor's algorithm&mdash;is needed.

Author: Thank you for the insightful comment! I fully agree with your idea.
I have edited the paragraph to explain how we handle that:
https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/553/commits/d348813b4bd8aa5d110b0649850fa7a55685aeab

# Getting Started

## Step 1: Environment Setup

> we currently support <a href="https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/" target="_blank">Qiskit</a> as the available quantum programming language.

Reviewer: *We

Author: Fixed: https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/553/commits/17a978f2d6f18b92bac8ee2a96c082502c02e87b

For the best coding experience, we recommend setting up a local Qiskit environment on your computer. This setup will provide useful features such as autocompletion and linting to improve productivity and code quality.

To get started, please refer to the <a href="https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/guides/" target="_blank">official Qiskit documentation</a> for detailed installation instructions and guidelines.

> ## Step 2: User Registratoin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2: User Registration
```

To participate in contests and submit your solutions, you need to sign up via the <a href="https://www.qcoder.jp/auth/signup" target="_blank">registration page</a>.

## Step 3: Dive In and Enjoy!
You now have access to all the content on QCoder. We suggest starting by participating in past contests. While you may find some parts difficult initially, you'll gain a deeper understanding as you solve problems and refer to the provided editorials. QCoder offers contests for everyone, from complete beginners to seasoned experts.

> # Sample Problem

Reviewer 2: The sample problem idea is great! I think it should come before the `# Getting Started` section, however, so people can see what they're getting in to, and then sign up if they're interested. WDYT?

Author: I think that's a better way! I have modified the flow: https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/553/commits/3f0dbcd52a7f7cba82046d58bbf1b2b5ba0d72df

To help you get started, let's walk through a sample problem. Please note that this is just one example, and we offer both easier and more challenging problems. You can explore and choose the one that suits your level by visiting <a href="https://www.qcoder.jp/" target="_blank">QCoder</a>.

## Problem Statement
You are given an integer $n$, representing the number of qubits.
Your task is to implement a quantum circuit with minimal circuit depth that prepares a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenberger%E2%80%93Horne%E2%80%93Zeilinger_state" target="_blank">GHZ state</a> using $n$ qubits.

The GHZ state is defined as

> $$
> \begin{equation}
> \ket{\mathrm{GHZ}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{0...0}_n - \ket{1...1}_n) \nonumber
> \end{equation}.
> $$

Reviewer 2: Note that when using `$$` to delimit an equation, the `\begin{equation}`/`\end{equation}` delimiters are not needed. This applies for the rest of the file as well.
```suggestion
$$
\ket{\mathrm{GHZ}} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{0\cdots0}_n - \ket{1\cdots1}_n).
$$
```

Author: Thank you for the tip! I have commited the suggestion and applied to all other equations: https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/553/commits/d184bf1d69e0cd62143b5ca0e6966f0895cc8dec

The submitted code should follow the format below:
```python
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
 
 
def solve(n: int) -> QuantumCircuit:
    qc = QuantumCircuit(n)
    # Write your code here:
 
    return qc
```

## Solution 1
<details>

> <summary>Open</summary>

Reviewer 2: Great use of the `details`/`summary` tag!

Author: Thank you!!

\end{equation}
$$
Next, we transform the state $\ket{100 \cdots 0}$ to $\ket{110 \cdots 0}$.
To achieve this, apply a controlled-X gate (CNOT gate) with the first quantum bit as the control bit and the second quantum bit as the target bit:
$$
\begin{equation}
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \lparen \ket{000 \cdots 0} + \ket{100 \cdots 0} \rparen \xrightarrow{CX(0,1)}  \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \lparen \ket{000 \cdots 0} + \ket{110 \cdots 0} \rparen
\end{equation}
$$
By continuing to apply the controlled-X gate until the $n$-th qubit is the target bit, we can prepare the GHZ state.
$$
\begin{equation}
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} \lparen \ket{000 \cdots 0} + \ket{110 \cdots 0} \rparen \xrightarrow{CX(0,2)} \, \cdots \xrightarrow{CX(0,n-1)} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (\ket{0...0} + \ket{1...1})
\end{equation}
$$
Summarizing these operations, we obtain the following circuit when $n = 4$:

<p align="center">
    <img src='../../images/2024-qcoder/QPC002_A3_circuit.png' width=500/>
</p>

Below is a sample program:
```python
from qiskit import QuantumCircuit
 
 
def solve(n: int) -> QuantumCircuit:
    qc = QuantumCircuit(n)
 
    qc.h(0)
 
    for i in range(1, n):
        qc.cx(0, i)
 
    return qc
```

</details>

> ## Solution 2

Reviewer 2: This might entice more people to click in to check out the second solution.
```suggestion
## Solution 2 [advanced]
```

<details>
<summary>Open</summary>

In the solution 1, the depth of the quantum circuit is $n$.
What kind of quantum circuit should be designed to further reduce the depth of the quantum circuit?

Let's examine the following example with 8 qubits.

<p align="center">
    <img src='../../images/2024-qcoder/QPC002_A5_circuit.png' width=600/>
</p>

In this case, the operations within each block, divided by the boundaries on the quantum circuit, act on different qubits, allowing them to be executed simultaneously. Therefore, the depth of each block is 1.
Thus, the depth of the quantum circuit above is 4.

> By generalizing this circuit, the depth of the quantum circuit becomes $\lceil \log_{2}{n} \rceil + 1$, which satisfies the given constraint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By generalizing this circuit, the depth of the quantum circuit becomes $\lceil \log_{2}{n} \rceil + 1$, which satisfies the constraint of reduced depth.
```

Below is a sample program:
```python
import math

from qiskit import QuantumCircuit

def solve(n: int) -> QuantumCircuit:
    qc = QuantumCircuit(n)

    qc.h(0)

    for i in range(int(math.log2(n)) + 1):
        for j in range(2**i):
            if 2**i + j == n:
                break
            qc.cx(j, 2**i + j)

    return qc
```

</details>

## Note

> Almost the same problem was featured in the <a href="https://www.qcoder.jp/contests/QPC002/" target="_blank">QCoder Programming Contest 002</a>. In Problem A3, both solutions 1 and 2 are accepted. However, in Problem A5, only Solution 2 is accepted, as it meets the stricter depth constraints. If you're interested, feel free to submit your solution and see how you do!

Reviewer 2: For all I know, the circuit you've constructed above might be the theoretical limit when creating the GHZ state from $\{H, S, T, CX\}$. BTW, are you restricting code submissions to use a specific gate set?
```suggestion
Almost the same problem was featured in the <a href="https://www.qcoder.jp/contests/QPC002/" target="_blank">QCoder Programming Contest 002</a>. In Problem A3, both solutions 1 and 2 are accepted. However, in Problem A5, only Solution 2 is accepted, as it meets the stricter depth constraints. If you're interested, feel free to submit your solution and see how you do! Can you find a shorter circuit?
```

Author: Currently, users can use Qiskit's [standard gates](https://docs.quantum.ibm.com/api/qiskit/circuit_library#standard-gates) in their code **unless the problem specifies otherwise:** https://www.qcoder.jp/en/qa#gate I think stating this aspect in the sample problem may be too much and could potentially confuse the reader. What are your thoughts?

# Conclusion
<a href="https://www.qcoder.jp/" target="_blank">QCoder</a> is a quantum competitive programming platform, offering opportunities to challenge and advance your skills in quantum computing.

> We are excited to announce that our 3rd contest is scheduled for November (date TBD). We look forward to your participation!

Author: Done: https://github.com/unitaryfund/unitary.fund/pull/553#discussion_r1807185829

# Conclusion
[QCoder](https://www.qcoder.jp/) is a quantum competitive programming platform, offering opportunities to challenge and advance your skills in quantum computing.

> We are excited to announce that our 3rd contest, [QCoder Programming Contest 003](https://www.qcoder.jp/contests/QPC003) (QPC003), will take place on **November 3rd, from 8:00 AM to 11:00 AM (GMT+0)**. We look forward to your participation!

Author: I have updated the upcoming contest schedule with the contest link (the page will be available soon). I'm ready to publish!
